reactjs/README.md, before:

# Intro to React.js
This folder includes a tutorial and some exercises about building a simple React app from the ground up.

## Lessons
- [What is React.js](what-is-react) — A quick primer for React.js.
- [Setting up a Local from Scratch](setup) — Learn to set up a React.js site from scratch without using [create-react-app](https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html).
- [Components](learn-components) — Working with an understanding components.

## Resources
- [Hello World](https://reactjs.org/docs/hello-world.html) — Learn React directly from [reactjs.org](https://reactjs.org).
- [Learn React @ Codecademy](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/react-101) — a comprehensive introduction to React.js.
- [Lifecycle Diagram Cheat Sheet](https://projects.wojtekmaj.pl/react-lifecycle-methods-diagram/) - A helpful interactive app for understanding the React lifecycle by version.
- [Webpack Development](https://webpack.js.org/guides/development/) - The Webpack development starter guide.
- [React Dev Tools for Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi?hl=en) - A helpful extension for understanding the React tree.

Commit message:

adds the next three TBD lessons to the react readme

reactjs/README.md, after:

# Intro to React.js
This folder includes a tutorial and some exercises about building a simple React app from the ground up.

## Lessons
- [What is React.js](what-is-react) — A quick primer for React.js.
- [Setting up a Local from Scratch](setup) — Learn to set up a React.js site from scratch without using [create-react-app](https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html).
- [Components](learn-components) — Working with an understanding components, props, and state.
- Using JavaScript Functions — A walkthrough of setting up, binding, and utilizing functions in React.
- React Hooks — Understanding the function of available React Hooks and what they attempt to accomplish.
- Updating React — Converting Class Components to Functional Components.

## Resources
- [Hello World](https://reactjs.org/docs/hello-world.html) — Learn React directly from [reactjs.org](https://reactjs.org).
- [Learn React @ Codecademy](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/react-101) — a comprehensive introduction to React.js.
- [Lifecycle Diagram Cheat Sheet](https://projects.wojtekmaj.pl/react-lifecycle-methods-diagram/) - A helpful interactive app for understanding the React lifecycle by version.
- [Webpack Development](https://webpack.js.org/guides/development/) - The Webpack development starter guide.
- [React Dev Tools for Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi?hl=en) - A helpful extension for understanding the React tree.
